>>MICAH HANKS: We are
faced with a phenomena
that neither history nor
science can fully explain.
Ever since the end of
the Second World War,
reports of strange,
unidentified flying objects
have occurred in our skies.
But what are they?
And even more
strangely, many of them
are described as resembling
rockets or missiles.
Are these secret wartime
technologies being tested,
or is there something
else going on?
They were first referred to
during the 1940s as ghost
rockets, and I believe they
may still be seen in our skies
even today.
You won't believe
this one, so stay
tuned as "Beyond Belief" with
George Noory starts right now.
>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Right now, indeed,
and welcome to "Beyond
Belief" is the author
of "The Ghost
Rockets," Micah Hanks.
Micah, welcome back.
MICAH HANKS: George,
always good to be here.
>>NOORY: This has been a strange
phenomenon, ghost rockets,
because we don't know
if they're man-made.
We don't know if people are
looking at UFOs in the sky.
What have you uncovered so far?
>>HANKS: Well,
first, I would like
to open this discussion
with, you know,
a bit of discussion
of terminology.
When we talk about
ghost rockets,
that's a direct
reference to what
was occurring in the
skies over Scandinavia
immediately after
the Second World War.
But I borrow that term, being
familiar to UFO researchers,
to discuss a broader phenomenon.
And as I discuss in my book,
"The Ghost Rockets," there
are still reports of
unexplained missile incidents--
torpedo-like objects, rockets,
sometimes flying dangerously
close to aircraft-- that
are seen in our skies today.
And so it's a very
perplexing discussion.
I think it involves
national security interests.
Yeah, these things are by
definition unidentified flying
objects.
And very specifically, narrowing
my focus with this book,
we're looking at
the ones that seem
to represent some sort of a
military type rocket or missile
kind of technology.
You wouldn't believe the
number of reports I've found.
>>NOORY: Are they
under guidance?
Or are they just
shooting off somewhere?
>>HANKS: Some of these, I would
argue, if they're manufactured
and obviously some sort
of a technological object,
that they are under
some sort of a guidance.
Some of them seem to kind of
veer along, change direction,
and do things that
are-- they're pretty
unusual for typical
missile and rocket reports.
Again, when we're
talking about drones,
this is a big
discussion these days.
>>NOORY: Oh, huge.
>>HANKS: Everybody's
talking about drones.
My local television station
contacted me a while ago
and said, you know,
we see your website.
You talk about this.
We want to talk about drones
over Asheville, North Carolina.
And it's just everyone
talking about it.
But again, my
listeners-- I've got
a lot of listeners, as you do,
who have worked in government,
people who are in the
know, aerospace, defense,
all kinds of things, technology.
When I talk with
these people, they'll
often say, again, there
are known types of drones.
There are corridors by which
many are supposed to be flying.
You're not just going to
see a drone just anywhere.
And when we're talking about
drones almost colliding
with aircraft, it begins
to be a bit of a problem.
>>NOORY: Sure does.
>>HANKS: And so a
lot of the cases
I look at are reports
by pilots and the like.
And there's clearly some
sort of a strange phenomena.
Some of these things aren't
just rockets and missiles--
rocket-like
technologies but that
seem to be something
really far out.
We'll talk about
that a little more.
>>NOORY: Let's go back to
the Scandinavian case that
kicked all of this
into high gear.
What was that case?
What happened?
>>HANKS: Well, a series of
sightings over Scandinavia
in the summer of 1946--
we're talking about a wave.
>>NOORY: A year before Roswell.
>>HANKS: Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah-- predating the
modern UFO era beginning
with Kenneth Arnold over Mount
Rainier, Roswell, New Mexico.
Those are two interesting
cases unto themselves.
But with the ghost
rockets, we have a number
of very unique, singular
things that happen.
First of all, the
Swedish government
put together a panel
that was literally
probing to try and
understand this, which hence
was the first government
group to study UFOs
in modern history.
They were observing some
sort of a phenomenon,
and interestingly, the
determination they came to
was almost identical to
that of the Condon Committee
a couple of decades later.
And that was that while there
were hundreds of observations--
on certain days
that summer, there
had been hundreds of
reports throughout parts
of Scandinavia in single days.
But the determination
at the end was
that we couldn't account
for a physical technology.
We didn't find any shrapnel.
We didn't have any really
reliable photographs.
People said they were seeing
something, whatever it was.
With our current
level of technology,
we weren't able to
document it, and they
had to say that it
was mostly probably
mass hysteria, although
some members of that panel
decades later would actually
confirm for Swedish researchers
that we did believe,
many of us on the panel--
>>NOORY: Mass hysteria?
>>HANKS: They didn't agree
with that completely.
Some members of the
panel, they said--
>>NOORY: What were
people seeing?
>>HANKS: People
were seeing rockets.
People were seeing missiles.
People were seeing things
crashing into lakes.
People were seeing
things that were flying
at extremely fast rate of
speed at high altitude.
And again, I think that maybe
war nerves did play into this.
If we want to talk about mass
hysteria, right after the war,
naturally, people are gonna--
>>NOORY: Well, that happens.
>>HANKS: Yeah, they're
going to be concerned.
>>NOORY: But there's
always a real case
that's the catalyst for that.
>>HANKS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Then the
hysteria starts.
>>HANKS: Question, yeah.
>>NOORY: Right?
So they've seen something.
>>HANKS: Exactly.
And that's the big
question on my mind.
Question number one-- why is
it that throughout history,
every time people
say by the hundreds
that they're seeing
something that we chalk it up
to mass hysteria?
How does that work?
Even Carl Jung, when he was
discussing the idea that maybe
this was a psychological
phenomena later with the radar
trace cases, he
had to acknowledge
there appears to be something
physical happening here.
And unless you or I are
capable or maybe masses
of creating, manifesting
matter, there
would have to be some sort
of a physical phenomenon
and a source for it.
Now, I think that the
ghost rockets in likelihood
were probably clandestine
military tests
by the Allies, maybe, that
followed the Second World War.
James Carrion--
>>NOORY: Remnants of Nazis?
The war was over.
Could they have still
been doing this?
>>HANKS: That's an
interesting question
which gets into a
lot of murky area.
I would say, again, former
national director of MUFON,
James Carrion, has written
a book called "The Rosetta
Deception"-- offers some
very brilliant points on this
from a more political
perspective, rather
than my historical
interpretation with the ghost
rockets.
But it's still worth reading.
Those two books
together, I think,
give the best explanation.
But with regard to
Nazi technologies,
we know that the Nazi
rocket propulsion experts--
Von Braun, of course,
Hermann Oberth--
they were the ones who
were innovating rocket
technology during
the Second World War.
>>NOORY: Thank god we got them.
>>HANKS: Thank god, indeed.
And it would be silly to think
that someone wasn't testing
that technology after the
Second World War just as well.
It's obvious.
But I think that there was a
propaganda element, just as
well.
Joseph Farrell and other
researchers and Richard Dolan
have talked about whether or not
propaganda-- media, government,
otherwise-- had been utilized
to steer public opinion
on those reports, and also,
maybe, with full knowledge
that government agencies, both
in the East and in the West,
would be looking at
those newspaper reports
and trying to see who had the
biggest weapons, so to speak.
>>NOORY: So this doesn't
sound like UFO cases.
Ghost rockets, to me,
sounds like some technology
based on this planet by a nation
that is starting to experiment.
>>HANKS: That's what I
would think, especially
in those early cases.
But now, let's do a 180 here.
>>NOORY: Uh-oh.
The twist.
>>HANKS: Here's the twist.
Question number two-- what
was seen the same summer
as-- I believe he
was actually the head
of tactical air command,
Captain Jack Puckett--
he was flying to
McDill Air Force Base.
I open the book with
this discussion.
He said that something
wingless, but
a long, rocket-shaped object,
about roughly twice the size
of a B29 bomber and
producing a red smoke tail
nearly collided
with his aircraft
as he was en route to McDill
Air Force Base that morning.
He said this thing had two
rows of illuminated portholes
on the side.
Again, we're talking about
literally something out
of a Buck Rogers episode
here-- a real rocket flying
through the air.
We know, as we've talked
about in the past, George,
that it seems highly unlikely
that an alien technology would
use rockets, in fact, maybe
impossible, to fly from point A
to point B. They're not going
to use rockets to get here.
>>NOORY: I would agree.
>>HANKS: But yet, there were
reports and have been reports
and continue to be reports
of rocket-propelled
or what seem to be
rocket-propelled
not just missiles and rockets,
but aircraft like what
Jack Puckett described seeing.
I might say that maybe
he had misperceived
what he saw if it
weren't for the fact
that there had been
other reports of a very
similar kind of an aircraft.
>>NOORY: Did they ever
conclude anything specifically?
>>HANKS: No, but this is what's
so funny, because I often
have been saying
in recent weeks--
and been getting a little
flak from the UFO community
about it, because again, I take
a pretty hard lined approach.
I say I think we need a new
estimate of the situation.
We can't be beholden to an
extraterrestrial hypothesis.
We need look at quality
statistical analysis
of the data.
But what I continue to say
is that this new estimate
of the situation needs
to be undertaken.
Well, that's what
they did at the time.
I believe it was Project
Scion under the Air Force.
And what they had said was,
based on the fact, of course,
that at that time, we
had not as humanity
been a space faring
civilization ourselves yet,
their estimation was
this is some technology.
It seems far enough beyond
what we know to exist.
It couldn't be ours.
Maybe this is extraterrestrial.
Now, I want to be clear, that's
what they thought at the time.
I don't know that we should
look at it the same way today.
But still, these are
high strangeness cases,
not just rockets and
missiles-- apparently aircraft,
apparently manned
aircraft, and something
that was far beyond the
known technologies of 1946.
>>NOORY: Let's jump
ahead for a moment.
Just a few years ago, we
talked about a Norway spiral,
whatever that is.
Some people thought it
was a Russian rocket.
Other people said,
no, it was some kind
of incredible HAARP-like device
that created that spiral look.
>>HANKS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You remember that?
>>HANKS: Oh, absolutely.
Oh, god.
How can I forget?
And Philip Plait, of course,
in Astronomy Magazine,
listed that among some
of the top UFO sightings
that ended up being
something after the fact.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HANKS: The official
explanation--
>>NOORY: And he's
always out to debunk.
>>HANKS: He tends to be.
I think, in fairness--
I like Phillip.
>>NOORY: I do, too.
>>HANKS: I like his writing.
>>NOORY: He calls himself
the Bad Astronomer.
>>HANKS: Yes, exactly.
>>NOORY: He's really
a good astronomer.
>>HANKS: He's a
great astronomer.
And as an astronomer,
he's doing exactly what
an astronomer should do.
But in the article
that, of course,
Stanton Friedman and many
of us took issue with,
he took cases where
it was already
known what the phenomenon
over Norway was.
That was a Russian
missile launch
that went awry and,
of course, produced
this interesting
spiral in the sky.
It seems very clear to me
that that wasn't a UFO,
so why use that in
a case against UFOs?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HANKS: It was a missile.
Interesting, huh?
Because in my book,
again, I think
that, while they're
unidentified,
a lot of these things
are missile tests.
>>NOORY: Did the
Russians ever admit it?
>>HANKS: I believe that there
was an official explanation.
>>NOORY: Did they?
>>HANKS: Yeah, I
believe there was.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HANKS: Yeah, again.
But it's interesting,
because this
could go both ways, George.
Here we had a purported
UFO that turns out
to be a missile off the
coast of California, Southern
California.
I think it was within a year of
that-- maybe just a few months.
>>NOORY: We think the Chinese
did that one, don't we?
>>HANKS: Well,
there's the theory
that there was a missile
launch by the Chinese.
But again, the
official explanation
had been that it had
been a trick of light
and that it was just
an aircraft coming
from over the west coast.
Now, I don't know.
It's interesting.
It looked an awful lot like
a missile launch to me.
And I wouldn't say that
the government might not
say from time to time that
something is something
else so as to dissuade the
public from becoming concerned
about what would be interpreted
as an obvious show of force,
military prowess.
I would stick with the official
explanation on that one.
But we always have to
be open to question.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>HANKS: But it's
interesting, because we've
got UFOs that turn
out to be missiles.
We've got planes that turn
out to be-- or rockets--
that we think are
rockets and missiles
and turn out to be planes.
It just shows there's a lot
of stuff going on in the sky.
We've got to be very careful
with what we're looking at.
But there's, yet
again, clearly, George,
some tangible phenomena.
>>NOORY: But these do not
sound like UFO-type cases.
>>HANKS: Well, it
depends on what we--
>>NOORY: They're not
the kind of craft
that are occupied that
we have been told about.
>>HANKS: Exactly.
When we say "UFO,"
again, the original idea
was flying saucer.
And by the way, I should say
that, in likelihood, there
may have been other things being
seen over Scandinavia in 1946.
But the term that
was used at the time
was "missile" or
"rocket," because this
is what people knew.
A year later, people were
seeing flying saucers.
And don't forget, of course,
that Kenneth Arnold had
said these things,
initially, they
looked more like
Chevron-shaped-- fixed wing
craft or single wing craft.
>>NOORY: Like stealth
aircraft, right?
>>HANKS: Yes, exactly.
And he described
their mode of flight
as being erratic like saucers
skipping across water.
The press latched onto it.
They loved it.
Everything seen after
that was a flying saucer.
Edward Ruppelt tried
to get away from that.
He said, let's call
these things UFOs.
And yet, here we are, more than
50 years later, you say "UFO,"
we mean-- you or I--
unidentified flying object,
but the media says spaceship.
Ghost rockets I don't
think are spaceships.
But they are definitely
unidentified, they're flying,
and they're objects,
without question.
>>NOORY: We're with
Micah Hanks, of course,
who's a UFO Researcher.
Micah, you've also
looked at flight TWA 800.
>>HANKS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Tell me about this.
And what's the connection
with the things you've done?
>>HANKS: I'll tell you this.
It's a subject I did
not want to write about.
>>NOORY: Sad story--
for some people
who might not remember it,
TWA flight 800, years ago,
leaving New York,
headed for Paris.
They were in a Boeing
747-- down it went.
It exploded.
>>HANKS: Yeah, over
Long Island Sound.
The question-- this is
the important thing,
and I think it's imperative
to state this from the outset.
In my book, I
don't make the case
that it was a missile that
brought down that plane.
In fact, I look at other cases
in the weeks before and after.
>>NOORY: And Jim
Sanders, who wrote
the book "The Downing
of TWA Flight 800,"
believes it was a missile
launched by us accidentally
that what it really
wanted to do was take down
another plane that was going
to try to crash into the 747.
He thought there was a
terrorist activity going,
we were there to try to stop it,
and that the missile took down
800 instead.
>>HANKS: Well, the
late Bill Donaldson
with the Association of
Retired Aviation Professionals,
he had also believed that
there was-- he thought maybe
it was a shoulder
mounted missile launch.
There had been a number
of speculative theories.
And in fact, actually,
a documentary
that came out, I
believe, two summers
ago that discussed the
fact that there was indeed
a lot of new evidence that
seems to show that there was
an explosion
external to the plane
rather than originating
in the central ring--
>>NOORY: Impact.
>>HANKS: Yeah, or the
center wing fuel tank,
which is the
official explanation.
>>NOORY: Right.
That's right.
>>HANKS: But here's the
problem I have with it, George.
I have, like many researchers--
a good researcher, at least,
would go and they'd download the
National Transportation Safety
Board documents, read all
the FBI opinions on all this.
And I did.
And I found that they have a
section in the official NTSB
document that states notable
witness sightings-- witness
observations of a purported
object moving toward the plane.
>>NOORY: Yes, many saw that.
>>HANKS: There were, I've heard
by some estimates, dozens,
maybe hundreds.
But the thing is is that
there are two or three that
are listed among about
a dozen in the report.
These are the
notable cases, sure.
Now, the thing is
is that there were
a number-- Paul
Angelides, I believe,
was one of the gentlemen--
a lot of people
who said there was clearly
an object seen flying up
toward the plane.
Well, I thought, because
I'm writing about missiles
and rockets, I've
got to look at that.
But what I found is
really, really incredible.
Again, the-- Bill
Donaldson and his team
who were investigating
this-- former flight
investigators themselves,
crash investigators-- they
found numerous
reports in the weeks
leading up to and after of what
looked like missiles or rockets
flying in that vicinity
over Long Island Sound, some
of them, George, shooting
up out of the ocean.
And there was one that--
>>NOORY: Submarine-based.
>>HANKS: Maybe so-- one
that our friend, of course,
Peter Davenport of the
National UFO Reporting Center--
he got a transcript of
the audio from Lufthansa
and also a British
Airways flight
that were heading over Long
Island Sound leaving JFK.
And they had had a
dialogue about something
at about 3,000 feet
altitude above them
and flying in the
opposite direction
but maintaining a
horizontal flight
path-- a green,
rocket-like object.
Now, here's the question.
If these were rockets seen
coming up out of the base
and flying over,
whose were they?
Why were they in this
well-trafficked area
off the coast of New York?
What was going on?
And if there were
reports of rockets
before and after TWA
flight 800, does that
change the way we
look at that case?
Those are questions that--
>>NOORY: Could have been
a horrible accident,
a tragic accident.
>>HANKS: Very well possible.
>>NOORY: I do know, and
I remember that night,
when they explained
it that way, to me, it
sounded like a
terrorist activity.
>>HANKS: Were you on
the air that night?
>>NOORY: I sure was.
>>HANKS: Oh, boy.
>>NOORY: And I
just felt-- it was
in St. Louis I was
on-- that there
was some terrorist activity.
And I remember
Bill Clinton trying
to temper that so
people wouldn't panic.
They didn't want to kill
the aviation industry.
>>HANKS: No, of course.
And even the FBI had been
open to that possibility
at the outset.
>>NOORY: Everybody did.
>>HANKS: Everyone was
looking at the possibility
that there was a terrorist act.
And now, of course, in
a post-9/11 America,
we know to what extent terrorist
acts can be taken against
the United States and
with horrific effect.
But what's interesting is that
the American physicist who
was the primary--
his name escapes me,
but he was featured in
the recent documentary.
And he appeared on
Fox News discussing
with the FBI director at the
time some of the new evidence.
And the FBI director,
rather than saying,
look, that's all bunk,
there's nothing to this,
he gets a little upset,
a little flustered, even.
And he says, I have to say
that if there are investigators
who were involved--
FBI, NTSB, whoever,
in this original investigation--
if they're only coming forward
now, then they were cowards.
They didn't want
to shake the boat.
After the fact,
to come forward--
>>NOORY: He was hot under
the collar, wasn't he?
>>HANKS: Yeah, but he said, if
they are coming forward now,
why didn't they
say something then?
He didn't say that
they were wrong.
He said, why are they
coming forward now?
Which left it open
to my interpretation
that, well, maybe people are
saying, OK, is there still
or are there still maybe
a number of questions
about TWA flight 800?
I think there are.
I really do.
>>NOORY: And the fact that
you have looked at that
and you investigate
UFOs-- sounds
like you're into mysteries.
>>HANKS: I'm into mysteries.
Yeah.
UFOs, I think, are one big
piece of the puzzle, George,
and I think a puzzle that
often takes place in our skies.
But that's an
interesting question
we should ask about
UFOs in itself.
We see them coming from
the sky when they take off
and they fly off at
incredible speed.
They fly off into the sky.
Does that mean that they're
coming from the sky?
I think that this interpretation
of the UFO phenomenon
in the broader sense as
being extraterrestrial
stems from our inability, the
complete escape from reality.
We don't know where they
come from or what they are.
But with the ghost
rocket cases, again, I
do think that we're
looking at probably
a terrestrial phenomenon.
But who's operating these
things behind the scenes?
>>NOORY: Some people think that
they could be time travelers,
ours coming back.
>>HANKS: I have entertained
that possibility a few times.
>>NOORY: You have?
>>HANKS: Yeah, maybe
not in relation
to the ghost rocket cases.
But the idea that
time travel is somehow
related to UFOs in the broader
scope of things-- I certainly
think that may be the
case, although I prefer
to use the term temporally
evasive technology,
because the way I see this
is, again, that, really, time
is probably a perceptual
illusion that we
as humans perceive.
We perceive right now.
But every time I say,
George, "right now,"
that was a second ago.
And we perceive that
the future's yet to come
and we have the past that's
already been behind us.
Stephen Hawking, of
course, says that our mind
interprets memory, the past.
We remember the past
because our brains function
in the same direction in
which entropy increases.
And I think that we, coming
back to the sensory idea,
are basically beholden to the
way we have evolved to operate.
But really, our physicists say
that time really may be fixed,
and that really, past, present,
and future may all exist.
We're just operating within it.
If that's the case, what if
there's a technology that's
learned to get
around the temporal--
>>NOORY: And they come back.
>>HANKS: Yeah, or
they go forward.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HANKS: I spoke with
Eric Von Daniken once.
And he had said, you know,
the original title of my book
had been "Memories
From the Future."
And that's, I think,
such an interesting way
to perceive the UFO phenomena--
a memory, like Hawking would
talk about in relation to
the way we perceive memories,
but from the future.
So there is almost
a way you could
tie in a psychic
component to some of this.
And it all comes back to
human perception to me.
But yeah, I think that a
nontemporal phenomenon-- time
travel, maybe, for the layman--
could be a part of this.
>>NOORY: Some say the Nazis
possessed UFO technology--
that they stumbled
across it with perhaps
a retrieved saucer-- and that's
why they had technology that
was so far ahead
of everybody else,
and had we not developed the
atomic weapon before them,
I'm convinced Hitler would have
used it all over the planet.
>>HANKS: Yes.
I have spoken to-- I first read
about that idea, by the way,
in Joseph Farrell's writing.
I've got a friend who
is a historian and who
has looked into that
and actually discussed
this with intelligence himself.
I've spoken to everyone
I can about that.
And the direction that
that all seems to go
is that the Nazis were
trying to do the same thing
that the Allies were--
that anyone would
have tried to do during wartime.
They A, wanted to
win, and B, they
were willing to do
that at all costs.
And so the idea that there
had been a super weapon on par
with an atomic bomb--
>>NOORY: They
would have used it.
>>HANKS: There's
some good evidence
that there were tests
over the Baltic Sea.
There was an electromagnetic
pulse that occurred afterward
that knocked out the grid
in Germany-- specifically
in Berlin-- that same weekend.
>>NOORY: And not too difficult
to knock out a grid then.
>>HANKS: Not then,
not now, even.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HANKS: So I think that we
have to take into consideration
there were incredible
technologies
the Nazis possessed.
But if they had had things on
par with UFOs and time travel,
as we hear about Die Glocke
and some of these conspiracy
theories, I have to ask,
why didn't they win the war?
And I think that it's a mixture
of what we think maybe they had
and actual technologies.
>>NOORY: Well, maybe they just
didn't have it ready in time.
>>HANKS: I would
say this-- and this
is part of the atrocious
aspect of Nazism in general--
they had hatred for minorities.
And they, because, I think, of,
for instance, Albert Einstein's
heritage, wanted their
own kind of physics.
They didn't want a Jewish
perspective on physics.
And they were trying to do
their own physics, which
may have led them to doing
some very interesting things.
And to me, they may not
have been successful,
but they were willing
to try anything.
And they were even
willing to get
into some of the strange
occult belief, too.
>>NOORY: Well, Hitler was
deeply into the occult.
>>HANKS: Very.
>>NOORY: He wanted that.
The Indiana Jones series,
which depict the Nazis looking
for the Ark of the Covenant,
and things like-- that's true.
>>HANKS: Yeah, a lot of it is.
>>NOORY: They did that.
>>HANKS: They certainly did.
And they were obsessed, even,
with these secret powers
and ways that they could
turn the tides of the war.
And so maybe some
of that actually
led them to developing or coming
at very-- at least very close
to developing incredible
Wunderwaffen magical weapons
of sorts.
I think that had been their aim.
Whether they got
there is debatable.
But I don't doubt,
George, I don't
doubt that the idea had probably
been propagated after the war,
especially by the
Allies, for purpose
of trying to convince
other intelligences
around the world-- and I'm
talking about specifically
probably Russia--
that we had captured
highly advanced
Nazi technologies.
A brief example.
A New York Times report
right after the war
discussed seeing a saucer-like
craft hovering over the Thames
River during the war, which
is an incredible report--
a saucer?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HANKS: And I think a
lot of people look at that
and they say, wow, that
seems like a very valid UFO
report that ties
the Nazis to it.
But it seems more,
to me, more likely
that that would
have been something
that we know would
have been put right
out in the open-- Russian
intelligence finds this
and they think, my god, what
have the Allies captured?
What has America got?
What did they get from
Germany that we didn't?
What was going on over
there, Peenemunde,
that we didn't about?
And maybe some of the
ghost rockets actually
fell into that just
as well-- tests
from things that were actually
captured, or at the very least,
the information thereafter
that was released
with purpose of
psychological warfare.
It's a really complex web we
start to see emerge with--
>>NOORY: It's huge.
>>HANKS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I want to ask
you about a subject I
know you're familiar with.
I don't know how much
you've researched it.
But the 1952 UFO flap
over Washington, DC--
captured, great picture in
the newspapers at the time.
People actually
witnessed something
hovering over the capital,
many objects over the capital,
in 1952.
What's your take on that?
>>HANKS: Well, that's
an interesting case.
I know Edward Ruppelt, of
course, wrote about that.
It's often said that,
well, Ruppelt also
recanted all his
positions on UFOs.
>>NOORY: I don't think he did.
>>HANKS: I don't know
that he did, either.
I know that he offered
a second edition
of that book which was very odd.
>>NOORY: And he had Project Blue
Book at the time, did he not?
>>HANKS: Well, he
had at the time, yes.
And I still maintain his book,
"The Report on Unidentified
Flying Objects," no matter
which version you read,
is one of the best
books written on UFOs.
>>NOORY: I think so, too.
>>HANKS: And he talked
about that case.
And I believe that
there were actually
radar traces of those objects
hovering over Washington.
First of all, this has--
>>NOORY: And they panicked.
>>HANKS: Yeah, they
panicked, because this
is one of the greatest
national security threats.
More interesting
to me, though, is
the fact that the very
same thing actually
happened the other day.
Did you hear about this?
>>NOORY: Tell me.
>>HANKS: There was actually
a report just the other day.
This would have been a week ago.
And there was what was described
as a nautilus-shaped white
object that was hovering
directly over Washington.
People took photos of it.
People who do news for my
site, gralienreport.com,
were sending me links and
saying, did you see this?
I'm thinking, no.
The reason I didn't
see it-- I've
got news filters set up
to look for news stories
that say "UFO."
UFO was never
mentioned, but there
were photos of a white
object believed to be maybe
a high altitude balloon, some
sort of a secret aircraft.
Something was--
>>NOORY: A drone?
>>HANKS: I don't know, but it
hovered for some 45 minutes
over Washington, DC.
NORAD said that it wasn't a
high altitude balloon test.
Apparently, the meteorological
experts who were questioned
said there were no
weather balloons.
>>NOORY: Well, after
9/11, my ability
to be confident in
NORAD has changed a lot.
>>HANKS: Well, maybe so,
although I think that they've
really ramped up their--
literally, if anything is seen
in air space, as we're told, at
least, that seems questionable,
NORAD, they're scrambling jets.
But this is the
interesting thing.
They said that they didn't
know what this thing was.
And furthermore,
to my knowledge,
there was no scrambling
of jets by NORAD.
So what was seen
over Washington?
Now, it could have
been a balloon.
And in this modern
era-- again, I
look at a lot of the
ghost rocket reports
as probably being drones.
Maybe it was a drone, but
George, the military drones
aren't the only ones.
There are the civilian
drones just as well.
And I'm thinking whoever-- if
that was somebody operating
a drone over
Washington, DC-- last
place they should be doing that.
>>NOORY: Did we scramble?
>>HANKS: I don't think we did.
And to my knowledge, there's
no official explanation
as to what was actually seen.
But these kinds of things
happen all over the place.
There's been kind of a
wave of UFO sightings
over Southern
California recently.
One gentleman sent
me a story of two
what looked like huge--
bigger than Goodyear blimps--
but huge, blimp-like
objects flying in formation,
completely silent.
And they had beacons,
white lights,
that were pulsing on the
front, blue sparks, he said,
that shot out the back.
But he said the strangest
thing about these two craft.
He said, my girlfriend
and I watched them.
It was 10:30 PM.
We were in Beaumont, California.
As they flew overhead--
>>NOORY: Silent?
>>HANKS: Silent-- and he said
that the light that illuminated
them so that we
could see the shape
revealed these huge craft
that seemed worn out,
like they were older.
That seemed so strange to me.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
>>HANKS: So there's so much
going on in our air space that,
again, is not being
officially discussed.
>>NOORY: How much is our
technology, how much is
unknown technology,
in your opinion?
>>HANKS: In my opinion, I
think the majority of it
is probably our technology.
And you read every day
about DARPA's stealth blimp
or the idea that the
Defense Department's
working on high altitude
blimps and dirigible craft.
>>NOORY: Things we saw 10 years
ago, they're just using today.
>>HANKS: They were probably
using them 10 years ago,
maybe 20 years ago.
That's just it.
>>NOORY: Yeah,
that could be, too.
>>HANKS: What we know
about-- I've always
been told by my
friends, aviation
historians and the
like, they'll always
say that what you think we have
that's state of the art today
we had 30 years ago-- computers,
aircraft, the whole works.
And I guarantee you,
there's stuff out
there that's so beyond belief--
>>NOORY: --that
they're working on.
I think they're working
on anti-gravity devices.
You name it, they've got it.
>>HANKS: They may
already have it.
>>NOORY: But is it all
reversed engineered technology
from a UFO?
>>HANKS: I don't know.
>>NOORY: Or are we that
smart to come up with this?
>>HANKS: I would like to
say that maybe humans had
the ability to come up
with this and to find
these things ourselves.
But that is a whole
different question.
George, if that's the case, then
why has this information not
been publicly available?
How has the secret
been kept so well?
And I talk with
different people who
have background in government.
Colonel John Alexander
talks about this.
He says, I've looked
in all echelons
of government available to me.
I find no interest in--
>>NOORY: There's no secret.
>>HANKS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: They don't cover it up.
>>HANKS: And so sometimes,
George, just to be honest,
I have to look at this as
being either something, maybe,
that's earthly but
extra governmental.
But that seems almost impossible
in our information age,
in a post-Snowden release era.
Maybe there's something
else going on.
The mind reels at
the possibilities.
>>NOORY: Area 51-- what
the heck is going on there?
>>HANKS: That's an interesting
story, because officially,
it's been acknowledged
now, as a result of release
of information--
>>NOORY: That it exists.
>>HANKS: Yes.
Yes.
The CIA, of course-- their
documentation about everything
from the B2s and the U2s, the
stealth programs, basically,
spy planes and things during the
'50s, which I do think account
for a lot of the--
>>NOORY: I agree.
>>HANKS: --a lot
of the UFO reports.
But with Area 51, maybe
there's a little more going on.
There was a story
recently, in fact,
in the news, that was talking
about new runways that
appear on satellite
imagery of Area 51.
Coming back to
Bill Cooper-- we've
discussed him
before in the past.
Bill Cooper had spent a lot
of time looking out there.
And he said that there were
all kinds of strange lights
and things that appeared
in the sky over Area 51.
And then there seems
to be-- although it's
been called into question
in the past-- what
I think that at times is
some compelling information
that guys like Robert Lazar
have brought to the table.
Now, I know most of the
UFO community says--
>>NOORY: He's either way
off or he's really accurate.
>>HANKS: Let me tell you what--
>>NOORY: There's no in between.
>>HANKS: --what
compels me about some
of what Robert Lazar--
what Bob Lazar has said
is that-- there are
videos of him online.
A lot of people don't know this.
And the kind of technology
he's working with right
now-- I think he's got,
actually, a company.
He sells everything from
Geiger counters to--
>>NOORY: Alternative
energy and everything else
he's looking for.
>>HANKS: Yeah.
And he's also, of course,
contracted from time to time
to carry out
projects and things.
It seems to me he's got
a background in this.
He's still doing this
sort of thing today.
To me, his testimony seems
more than just a charlatan
who was trying to get attention.
But that brings to mind
a couple of questions.
Was he telling the truth?
Was he told not
to tell the truth?
>>NOORY: Is he a
misinformation person?
>>HANKS: Yeah.
And I think we've been
shown with Majestic 12 that
has happened.
There people out there,
like Richard Doty,
who have been involved
in giving information
that good, meticulous
researchers, like Robert
Hastings, have worked
to try and disprove.
>>NOORY: It's easy to throw
a curve ball at people.
>>HANKS: It really is.
>>NOORY: And you
have to be careful.
>>HANKS: We have
to be careful not
to become beholden to
belief, because as soon
as we think we know
what's going to happen,
every idea is going
to be thrown out.
>>NOORY: Micah, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>HANKS: My pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: Appreciate it.
Good luck in everything you
do in your continual research
into this important field.
>>HANKS: I appreciate it.
>>NOORY: It's great to
know we've got people
like Micah Hanks out
there researching, getting
to the bottom line of the
question of do UFOs exist,
and if so, where
do they come from?
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."